---
layout: post
title: "Join"
date: 2014-09-10 12:00:00
categories: word
---

united, attached, grafted

**Scriptures** :

Deut. 4:4 **But you who joined yourselves to Jehovah your God are alive, all of you, today** .

Rom. 6:5 **For if we have grown together with Him** in the likeness of His death, indeed we will also be in the likeness of His resurrection.

Rom. 11:17 But if some of the branches were broken off, and you, being a wild olive tree, **were grafted in among them and became a fellow partaker** of the root of fatness of the olive tree.

1 Cor. 6:17 But **he who is joined to the Lord is one spirit** .

2 Cor. 1:21 But the One who **firmly attaches us with you unto Christ** and has anointed us is God.

**Footnotes** :

Rom 6:5, note 1 (grown) **This denotes an organic union in which growth takes place, so that one partakes of the life and characteristics of the other.** In the organic union with Christ, whatever Christ passed through has become our history. **His death and resurrection are now ours because we are in Him and are organically joined to Him. This is grafting** (11:24). Such a grafting (1) discharges all our negative elements, (2) resurrects our God-created faculties, (3) uplifts our faculties, (4) enriches our faculties, and (5) saturates our entire being to transform us.

Rom 11:17, note 1 Grafting produces an organic union (see note 51 in ch. 6). It is not the exchanging of a poor life for a better life. Rather, **it is the uniting of two lives as one so that they may share one mingled life and one living.** Such a mingling of life takes place when two similar yet different lives pass through death (cutting) and resurrection (growth). This depicts our union with Christ.

1 Cor. 6:17, note 1(joined) This refers to the believers' organic union with the Lord through believing into Him (John 3:15-16). This union is illustrated by that of the branches with the vine (John 15:4-5). It is a matter not only of life but in life (the divine life). **Such a union with the resurrected Lord can only be in our spirit** .

1 Cor. 6:17, note 2 **This indicates the mingling of the Lord as the Spirit with our spirit** . Our spirit has been regenerated by the Spirit of God (John 3:6), who is now in us (v. 19) and is one with our spirit (Rom. 8:16). This is the realization of the Lord, who became the life-giving Spirit through resurrection (15:45; 2 Cor. 3:17) and who is now with our spirit (2 Tim. 4:22). This mingled spirit is often referred to in Paul's Epistles, e.g., in Rom. 8:4-6.

**Ministry Excerpts** :

Originally we were born in Adam, apart from Christ (Eph. 2:12). **Through our believing and being baptized, we have entered into Christ. This is the beginning of the experience of our being joined to Christ** .

When we believe into the Lord and are baptized, God puts His Spirit in us and anoints us, firmly attaching us to Christ. On the one hand, **it is we who believe and are baptized into Christ; on the other hand, it is God who attaches us unto Christ by anointing us with His Spirit** .

By believing and being baptized into Christ, we become men of the new creation in Christ. We become such men by being joined to Christ in our experience.

After we enter into Christ to become a new creation in Him, we must remain in Him and abide in Him, taking Him as our dwelling and our resting place. **In Christ we enjoy all that He is to us. We enjoy Him as our life and life supply, and as the peace, comfort, support, leading, joy, and hope that we need to live a heavenly, spiritual, holy, victorious, and transcendent life so that we may become transcendent persons, experiencing our being joined to Him in our living and our walk.**

**Our being joined to Christ begins with our entering into Him, continues with our remaining in Him and abiding in Him, and is intensified by our living with Him. This is the experience in our living of being joined to Him and of taking Him as life** (Col. 3:4). (_Life Lessons_, Lesson 26, pp. 201-202)

**We the believers are joined to the Lord as one spirit. This is a great mystery, perhaps the most mysterious matter revealed in the Bible.** Who can explain such a mystery? Can you explain how it is possible for us to be one spirit with the Lord? Although we cannot explain it, we can surely experience it. **Often I pray in the morning, "Lord, thank You for another day in which to practice being one spirit with You." What a wonder that sinners such as we can be one spirit with the Lord!** The more we consider this matter, the more we realize how wonderful it is.

In [1 Corinthians] 6:17 Paul plainly declares the fact that we are one spirit with the Lord. But few of us have paid adequate attention to this. **We need much time to study this verse and explore it in an experiential way. We need to experiment and learn how to be one spirit with the Lord in our speaking and in all that we do.** As we do various things, we need to consider whether or not we are one spirit with the Lord. (_Life-study of Corinthians_, p. 349)

In 6:17 Paul says, "He who is joined to the Lord is one spirit." **I wish to emphasize once again that this refers to the believers' organic union with the Lord through believing into Him (John 3:15-16). Such a union with the resurrected Christ can only be in our spirit,** for Christ today is the life-giving Spirit (1 Cor. 15:45) and is now with our spirit (2 Tim. 4:22). (_Life-study of Corinthians_, p. 357)

**To seek the things which are above and to set our mind on them is to join ourselves to the Lord in His ministry in heaven** . **We need to join ourselves to the very One who is interceding, ministering, and executing God's administration. Our living should be a kind of living in which we seek these heavenly things and set our mind on them** . **This means that we live in such a way as to join our heavenly Christ** in His priesthood, ministry, and administration. If we all live in this way, the church life will be greatly uplifted. (_Life-study of Colossians_, p. 524)

[Daniel] did not read the Scripture in a dead way. **As soon as he touched God's desire through the Word, he immediately joined himself to that desire.**

This was the way he read the Bible. **This was why he could be touched by every word, by the light, and by the teaching in the Bible.** After he read the book of Leviticus, he could no longer eat the unclean food. After he read the book of Jeremiah, he could not help but fast and pray for the restoration of God's people. **Whichever point he read, he joined himself to that point. Brothers and sisters, please remember that a person who turns the age for God must possess such a characteristic.** When we come to God's Word, we have to learn not to study for some scholarship or for some knowledge, but to find out God's desire from His Word. **Whenever we find out God's desire, we must immediately join ourselves to that desire….To read the Bible, one must join himself and his living to God's Word. Any time you find out God's desire from His Word, you must immediately join yourselves to this desire with fear and trembling. This is the second characteristic we find in Daniel. Every person whom God uses to turn the age must possess this characteristic. Only those who join themselves to God's Word can be of real use to God!** (_Men Who Turn the Age_, pp. 22-23)

**Hymns:**

_ **Hymn 474** _

1.I am one with Thee, Lord Jesus,

One in spirit now with Thee;

All Thyself I now possess, Lord,

All Thou art now lives in me.

One with Thee, one with Thee,

One with Thee, one with Thee;

Day by day I share Thy riches,

Thou art everything to me.

2.Now I share Thy human life, Lord,

Filled with Thy humanity,

All of Thy complete obedience

Is available to me.

3.One with Thee in crucifixion,

On the cross I died in Thee;

I am dead unto the world, Lord,

And the world is dead to me.

4.One with Thee in resurrection,

Risen now to live in Thee,

With that life which is Thyself, Lord,

Now in me, Lord, even me.

5.One with Thee in Thine ascension,

In the heavens now with Thee;

Here a pilgrim and a stranger,

My true life is hid in Thee.

6.One with Thee in Thine enthronement,

Sharing Thine authority,

Even as I share Thy life, Lord,

I in Thee and Thou in me.

_ **Hymn 482, ss. 1-3** _

1.I am crucified with Christ,

And the cross hath set me free;

I have ris'n again with Christ,

And He lives and reigns in me.

Oh! it is so sweet to die with Christ,

To the world, and self, and sin;

Oh! it is so sweet to live with Christ,

As He lives and reigns within.

2.Mystery hid from ancient ages!

But at length to faith made plain:

Christ in me the Hope of Glory,

Tell it o'er and o'er again.

3.This the secret nature hideth,

Harvest grows from buried grain;

A poor tree with better grafted,

Richer, sweeter life doth gain.

33 - Join
